## July 5th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  |Luke Wagner, Radu Matei, Roman Volosatovs, George Kulakowski, Nicholas Farshidmehr, Peter Huene, Michelle Dhanani, Lann martin, Brian Hardock, Bailey Hayes
| Note Taker | Radu Matei|

### Agenda

- The prototype registry implementation now has a home:
    - Lann: nothing much to add since last week, I initially pushed this as a PR in the SIG registry repo, but now we have a new repo. No CI or anyhting else yet.
    - Lannn: tests! We don't have many abgreed proposals, everything that we have agreed.
    - Radu: how about persistence?
    - Lann: we should turn the backend persistence into a trait
    - Radu: cargo component?
    - Peter: we can release it. If we want to do development of the registry integration, that can be a private repo. By itself, cargo component has utility.
    - Radu: anything else we need to do befire making public?
    - Peter: I don't think so. We just need to agree to make it public.
    - <agreement to make cargo component public>
- [glossary PR](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/6) ready for review. One observation that might be worth discussion is the change from packages to entities.
    - Bailey: Lann and I both contributed changes, so it would be great for someone else to review it.
    - Bailey: people still talk about "packages" — I want to raise this so we agree on the naming that is used.
    - George: I reviewed everything other than that discussion, Everything else LGTM. We should pick a name and try to use it.
    - Luke: "entity" is generic.
    - Bailey: it's common for registries to have "packages".
    - Bailey introduces Kyle.
    - Bailey: we should create a GH issue / discussion for a poll.
    - Luke: one argument in favor of "package" is that it has a version associated, whereas "entity" seems unversioned.
    - George: I agree. I like the idea of making a discussion out of it.
- Discovery API next steps
    - Brian: I updated the discovery API proposal; calling for another review if necessary.
    - Brian: I've been leaning towards trying to prototype this, wondering if people have concerns or ideas.

- Resolve signature format discussion
    - Nathaniel: I've done some work this week on the question of append-only logs. This does lock us into a specific data model, and we should agree on that. One thing that JOSE has that none other does is appending multiple signatures on the same envelope. I can present a sketch of how that looks like, or we can decide on signing now.
    - Bailey: I'm interested in the specific parts where you;d need JOSE.
    - Nathaniel: for an append-only log, the ability to have multiple signatures on the same object is relevant. DSSE and other do not support it.
    - Lann: DSSE *does* support that.
    - Nathaniel: there are other parts of the JOSE spec that make sense with append-only logs. Perhaps it would be better to walk through.
    - Lann: I'd like to short-circuit the signature discussion first. Has anyone suddenly generated new opinions?
    - Lann: we would have a subset of the JWS as our spec, Nathaniel?
    - Nathaniel: yes, we would have a list of attributes we allow.
    - Lann: that does a good enough job of amoeliorating our concerns, unless anyone else wants to argue. Otherwise, I vote to move forward with this.
    - Bailey: does this mean we couldn't use Rekor or Fulcio?
    - Lann: OIDC is JWS. Fulcio should support custom record types, it shouldn't care.
    - Bailey: what tools will we have available based on this decision? If we go witht he implementations that Nathaniel is suggesting, we should be ok.
    - Radu: do you want to contribute your implementation  too the Bytecode Alliance, Nathaniel?
    - Nathaniel: yes.
    - Nathaniel: should I walk thorugh my thoughts on append-only logs? I am not proposing we adopt this, just trying to see if people like the direction.
    - Nathaniel presents https://hackmd.io/XY-ldgXxRSSc2FQJJjyS3g
    - Kyle: delegation has some interesting ideas to it.
    - Bailey: SingleStore is interested in collaborating on this
    - Lann: I am personally in favor of this approach, but it does represent a significant complexity trade off, and I want us to have broad consensus for taking this approach.
    - Nathaniel: I agree. Delegation, for example, is one way in which we can break down a complex phenomenon to a simple primitive that we only have to implement once. But I agree, there is definitely a complexity trade off.
    - Brian: Is the verify complexity still O(N) or can these be efficiently implemented using something like RSA accumulators? Or am i out of my element
    - Nathaniel: initially it's O(n), but after the first time, it's incremental validation.
    - Lann: release annotations are roughly equivalent to "affy" — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/11
    - Luke: I like a lot of the ideas, this looks generally great. Question: the "delegate" event allowed other people to append events to the log. So in some sense, you can't append to the log unless there is a previous event that grants access.
    - Kyle: DOS is a fundamental thing this would mitigate. The TTL requires you to delegate to other entities.
