## April 20th — SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Michelle Dhanani (Fermyon), Peter Huene (Fastly), Brian Hardock (Fermyon), Till Schneidereit (Fastly), Radu Matei (Fermyon), Ralph Squillace (Microsoft), Nathaniel McCallum (Profian), Roman Volosatovs (Profian), Taylor Thomas (Cosmonic), Lann Martin (Fermyon), George Kulakowski (Fastly), Carl Sverre (SingleStore)
| Note Taker | Michelle Dhanani (Fermyon), Radu Matei (Fermyon) |

### Agenda

- volunteers for note taking
- welcoming new SIG members and meeting attendees
    - none
- Proposed improvements for collaboration (10 minutes)
    - discussing a staging process
    - how to collaborate asynchronously
    - timeboxing topics
        - Till: an explicit process for staging discussions, where the vague outline could be 3 different stages for discussion:
            - 1. we know what the problem is, and we are talking about the most general shape of the solution, without the need to fix every aspect (including the contentious aspects). As long as it's not about the overall shape, as contentiuous as it might be, we should defer this to the second stage.
            - 2. now we need to dig into details (API design details) — this would be the time to raise concerns about the topic at hand.
        - In stage 1, I want to suggest that we agree that we keep things at a high level, and discuss details at stage 2. If someone has concerns about details, they MUST be discussed at stage 2
            - 3. we have agreed in stage 2 on the details, this is the implementation stage, which feeds back into the previous stage. It is the stage to discuss implementation details, not to re-open stage 2 agreements without new relevant information.
        - Till: at Fastly, we are exploring project management tools that would apply to this group, we will give updates here once we have enough experience with it.
        - Nathaniel: How do we decide when features move between stages?
        - Till: people championing a proposal could say "this feels ready, should this move to stage 2"? If someone disagrees.
        - Radu: this assumes consensus, what do we do where there isn't?
        - Till: the Wasm CG uses loose consensus with a fallback to a majority vote. This seems productive to me, but I don't know.
        - Nathaniel: I think everyone here is working in good faith, and I expect we could drive towards consensus. If we need to fall back to voting, that is also fine.
        - Till: the first time we encounter an issue where we don't have consensus, we could decide then. The way the Wasm CG does this is documented, I can pull the MD file and see whether that is workable (not the entire process).
        - Till: another thing I observed is that we end up having very sync discussions during this meeting. It would be excellent if more discussions could move to asynchronous discussions.
        - Nathaniel: Should async discussions be gated on stage2?
        - Till: even at the high level design, there are often complex considerations to be had, so perhaps spending time between meetings might be prodictive.
        - Nathaniel: I have seen subgroups getting together to advance ideas without consensus.
        - Till: async conversations should be accessible to everyone, so anyone interested should be able to participate.
        - Nathaniel: it might be sufficient for async collaboration to be publicly announced.
        - Radu: any gathering of a subgroup of people here should be announced at this meeting.
        - Nathaniel: I agree.
        - Till: we could dive into consensus next week. Do we need to document?
        - Michelle: it would be nice to document, perhaps the notes are enough.
        - Till: George and I could write some of it down./
        - George: sure, perhaps Till should not be the only one, as he has a lot of internalalized knowledge.
        - Carl: as we move more information to async - can we somehow reserve some time in this meeting to do a summary of what happened async?
        - Michelle: That’s a great idea Carl.
        - Michelle: we have been talking a lot about having posivite conflict, so I like that we are talking about taking the time to do this.
- updates on the query API — bytecodealliance.stoplight.io
    - discussed the type of metadata we want to search for last week
    - updated HackMD based on last week's discussion: https://hackmd.io/@radu/rkoq-cZ45
    - Brian translated the discussed Discovery API in Stoplight: https://bytecodealliance.stoplight.io/docs/webassembly-component-registry/b3A6NTM4MDQ2MjE-discovery-api
- the `authors` field
    - Nathaniel to introduce the topic
        - We should not try to overload a single field with different roles:
            - Example distinct roles: person who uploads binary to regsitry, person who may sign an artifact that gets uploaded, person who produced binary/artifact, person who wrote source code in binary/artifact
    - Radu: would creating distinct roles publisher and author help?
        - publisher: person/group who publish component to registry
        - author: person/group who created the component
    - Nathaniel: there may intermediataries / intermediate steps
    - Carl: which use case does keeping track of authorship at this granularity represent?
        - i.e. why do we need high levels of granularity
    - Lann: spent time thinking about these things.
        - we should think about what registry does not do
        - I would propose not making certain things in scope that may be included in tooling/client of registry
        - A registry ties a pubicly well known name to who can publish packages to that name
    - Ralph: Had something but mic isnt working
    - Nathaniel: Helpful to define what is and out of scope
        - Metadata we can query against vs metadata we can inspect later
            - Author falls into the latter
        - I want to query by author I trust, might want to query on publisher. This would need to be tied to a cryptographic key.
            - Query-able aspect of publisher
    - Ralph:
        - Number of transforms and processes... those kind of attestations is not a formal author. they're a kind of package that performed a transform.
        - Nathaniel: Certification is a type of transform, so we might not want to jettison that case
    - ...
    - Radu: Should PackageMetadata contain a signatures field?
    - Lann: yes and Publisher is a distinct and important role
    - Nathaniel: worried about anti-pattern
    - Summary:
        - Circled around and decided we want a signatures field on the PackageMetdata
            - Don't have concrete definition on what that field represents
        - Question of publisher field: still debate on that
        - Nathaniel: Should we query against signatures
            - Carl: Querying by signature is not in the MVP product defintion
- CRUD operations for components (working document — hackmd.io/@radu/rkoq-cZ45)
    - Skipped this section
- (time permitting) a quick demo of `cargo component`.
    - Peter is going to quickly walk us through an example
    - If you want to take a look at it, message Peter
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/cargo-component/
    - This addresses the user story: using Rust tooling, generate a web assembly component
