## March 23rd — SIG Registries meeting

### Agenda
- updates on the Bytecode Alliance, the Technical Steering Committee, and the SIG process
- methodology for working on the registry MVP


### Notes

- Till: we have an email draft to send mto members, trying to figure out the timeline. Basically, this is about establishing the recognized contributors program. COmmunicating to other members of the BCA about the SIG is important — would it make sense to have a kick-off meeting, something informational, where we present to Bytecode Alliance members.
- Radu: would it make sense to have an idea around the methodology for working on the MVP?
- Radu: is there any outstanding conversation that would prevent us from talking about the working process?
- Taylor: there has been some confusion — I think I have a better understanding now. I thought we were only talking about client tooling, without talking about the registry. I want to clarify what exactly is the registry, and what exactly is the client tooling. I was informed about the Wact tool. It sounds like we need the actual component registry, and we picture that being backed by Bindle.
- Luke: registry vs. client tooling - about a month ago, we were at the point where we could define HTTP endpoints. We now have the set of user stories, and I think we can define the HTTP endpoints.
- Nathaniel: we have decided that for various reasons that Bindle is not appropriate for our use cases. We have began the work on a set of composable microservices that do things like an HTTP merkle tree API, all composable as layers. Everyone agrees we need a merkle tree, it's the only cryptographical guarantee we have. So you take the HTTP merkle tree and you can do other things on top of it. The project is licensed as Apache2, if we can contribute things we are happy to.
- Brian: is it public?
- Nathaniel: it is public, but not functional.
- Roman: we should have API documentation soon, we'll share that in a few days.
- Till: would your plan be to collaborate on an HTTP API where you would have a different implementation, or are you saying you're going with a different registyr design?
- Nathaniel: we like the registry design, we're not comfortable merkle design of Bindle. We have to reuse the components in other places. Bindle was essentially a merkle tree and a bunch of other things, but they were not cleanly composable, which is what we are trying to accomplish with Drawbridge. We are *not* withdrawing participation, but we don't intent to use Bindle as the storage layher.
- Ralph: so you're saying you are willing to participate at the HTTP level, so we could collaborate on the API design. Is that a good description?
- Nathaniel: we are willing to collaborate at the code level. We are offering Drawbridge for use, if the group wants to use it, great, otherwise we will collaborate on the HTTP API.
Nathaniel:
My understanding is that nobody was committed to using Bindle at this point, so my preference is to have a single reference implementation. Otherwise we will build our own system.
Ralph: rolling with Bindle was the starting point, I think no one wants to maintain two projects. So at the moment you are not going to participate code on the Bindle project, and you have an alternative project that fits your needs, but you want to participate on the API level.
Nathaniel: we need to update our API docs, once that is up, we will share it with everyone and ask for feedback. If we can agree that’s a reasonable API for a merle tree, we can either implement the API in a reusable way, or use our own implementation.
Ralph: I appreciate your POV, this is a constructive approach. I am not speaking for everybody, it may even be that collaborating at the HTTP level actually clarifies several use cases. My immediate take is this sounds fine.
Nathaniel: we are staying at the table, happy to collaborate, we just have a few needs that need to be met.

Brian: does deciding on what implementation to use right now prohibit us from talking about the HTTP API?
Nathaniel: I don’t think so, we can absolutely talk about the API.

Radu: is it reasonable to talk
Nathaniel: I would offer my merkle tree API for reference, if only to make it better.
Brian: I think there have been some recent proposals to Bindle that might separating concerns better, so Bindle might become the query engine on top of some merkle tree API.
Nathaniel: there are only a handful ways to implement a merkle API, it has lots of use cases in our infrastructure, so if we want to put custom component registry queries on top of it I’m happy to collaborate on it.
Till: one comment — Michelle pointed out in chat there are still some comments in the doc we want to resolve Re: user stories, perhaps move some of them post-MVP.
Till: before talking about the HTTP API, I think it’s valuable talking about the actual requirements that flow from the user stories. My hope would be that the requirements uncover the disconnects in needs here.
Ralph: implementation-wise, that’s different than user stories. There are two issues I see - Bindle may not be as reusable as Nathaniel wants. The real place we can continue to work
Nathaniel: it would be helpful to define the artifact we need to store in order to be able to query in an efficient way, and have a schema on how that is laid out on disk. Someone mentioned there’s a Wasm file, and you could expand that — it would be great to understand how that would work.
Ralph: I think it’s productive work. While we have questions for the user stories, they are also open-ended as we go through the MVP. I like the idea of resolving the remaining comments and moving to HTTP, because if we have that, it would tell us a lot about the MVP and what we have to modify going forward.


George: I was going to make a suggestion on how to proceed there. The document describes a number of requirements and user stories. When I reviewed it, there seemed to be some requirements that did not seem to be captured by user stories, and user stories not stated as requirements. Would it make sense to have a few people that go through all of them and

Volunteers to do that: George, Radu, Brian
Radu: creates Doodle to do this
Michelle: creates an Table of Contents for this
Till: what seems likely but not sure is that the existing disagreements are all such that they wouldn’t imply fragmentation, if we talk about disagreements that are exposed on the API level and on the level of what functionality the registry can implement, then you need clients that know what implementation they talk to.
Nathaniel: I would prefer not to focus on the disagreement. The bigger concern has been designing the registry with a storage layer that didn’t satisfy our needs. We need to design the HTTP API.

Radu: are we all in agreement that we need to do the HTTP API design?

Luke: there seems to be one more round of tying the user stories, but yes.
Luke: we’ve talked about dev registries, deployment registries, which have to integrate them in custom infrastructure. So in any deployment registry, there seems to be scenarios where deployments will have to integrate with custom things, so something composable would be great. Having a modular architecture would be fantastic.
Nathaniel: this is why we designed it this wya, so we have a concept of apps and deployments. Think about software supply chain, where you have push and pull mechanisms, which could go all the way to source code. When deploying, my deployment is a “species” of the application. When you switch from an app to a deployment, you’re crossing into supply chain, so we need a merkle tree, which is why you need a merkle tree, which is why we decided to do it in a composable way.

Taylor: I think we need to focus on the HTTP design, which should make it a lot clearer.

Radu: would it make sense to go through the document now and see what;’s still outstanding?



User stories:

- D: going from a resolved version query to a precise version of a dependency (optional version constraint). We settled on language that is not around server, but around version constraints. Any disagreements with this?
- O: re: immutability, we need to keep at least the mapping from content hash to package / version. We need to make sure the record does not contain data we must delete, but we must also have enough info there that we can map to a specific version of a dependency. I’m not sure this comment means we need to change anything here.
(Nathaniel: we have separate tags in the merkle tree, where you can delete it, but the tag remains. I think we need a requirement such that a deletion is also an append in a log so things don’t magically disappear.
George: we haven’t defined “delete”, so I don’t think we need to do anything with this user story
Taylor: we can flush it out, but user-story wise, I think we’re good.
Till: deleting in this case means any actual data that might be in violation of legal requirements, and delete that, not just making it un-public. So we have to get rid of the data
Nathaniel: do we want to use another word instead of “delete”? We have “yanked”. Do we want to put “delete” in quotes as well?
Ralph: the user stories do not enforce what the API should look like, so putting it in quotes.
Brian: how about “purge”?
Nathaniel:
Radu: we are bike-shedding over the word to use in a user story that doesn’t affect the API.

- R:
George: do we want “semver” here?
Till: the core part here is we want to be able to have a version query resolved to a specific result of the query, then keep that result over
Radu: “version constraint” here makes sense instead of “


- T:
Nathaniel: I believe the wording was changed in the meantime, what I want is to lookup
