## August 17th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Kyle Brown, Bailey Hayes, Lann Martin, Peter Huene, George Kulakowski, Nicholas Farshidmehr, Nathaniel McCallum, Luke Wagner, Johnnie Birch
| Note Taker | Lann Martin

### Agenda

- [Kyle] WIP Benchmarking
- [Kyle] Addressing Scaling
  - Designing for npm scale
- [Kyle] Higher-level than package log discussions
  - Registry-level concerns
  - How to manage scale at this level
  - Work ongoing
- [Lann] Any opinions on prior topics?
  - Namespacing packages by registry / mirroring
    - Bailey: Discussion about mirroring a package log from e.g. SingleStore into Bytecode Alliance registry
    - Need to define "fork" vs "mirror" vs other kinds of "replications"
    - > (Lann is bad at taking notes, sorry)
    - Kyle: Registries can choose how to handle package dependencies: mirror, link out, reject, etc.
    - Luke: Package dependencies are like module dependencies
    - Luke: Feels like Clojure; build a new immutable state, then bump one top-level mutable variable. Mirroring vs other kinds of replication feel like whether you are copying immutable state or pointing at mutable variables
    - Bailey: From beginning of asm.js, a whitepaper was circulated with details that got people excited. We need a little more, but it would be great to publish something around log-based registries.
    - Nathaniel: Same idea; once we have clear ideas we should publish. Suspect that this system is sufficiently complex to be patentable. Should we patent to protect against other people patenting?
    - Lann: Publishing should protect against others patenting.
    - Luke: [...] When might we be ready to publish?
    - Kyle: a few weeks?
    - Bailey: We should start outlining what we might publish.
    - Luke: On the Bytecode Alliance blog?
    - Luke: Sounds like these could eventually be published with outside standards bodies (W3C)
    - > (more failure to take notes)
    - Bailey: We should create discussion topics re: patents / standardization / technical publications and more markety e.g. blog posts / conferences.
    - Luke: In the BCA we have researchers that would probably like to be involved in verification / publication
- [Bailey] Package Format
  - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/issues/30
  - Bailey: We've discussed bundling everything in a .wasm; do we have tools that produce those?
  - Peter: We have some component model features enabled in wasmtime.
  - <discussion about where to put metadata (description, author, etc)>
  - Nathaniel: Maybe that metadata should live in the registry?
  - Luke: Frank Dennis et al was working on wasm-signatures, which might be helpful.
  - Bailey: What about dependencies? Are they in the component?
  - Kyle: The registry could also store that information
  - Nathaniel: A registry may have package information without having access to the content.
  - Luke: The component needs to have information about imports. That may be copied into the registry.
  - Luke: Import information would go in the "import string(s)", which would be structured to contain different information.
  - Lann: The registry can index content outside of the log, it just won't be cryptographically verified there.