## May 4th — SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Radu Matei (Fermyon), Lann Martin (Fermyon), Michelle Dhanani (Fermyon), Brian Hardock (Fermyon), Peter Huene (Fastly), Luke Wagner (Fastly), George Kulakowski (Fastly), Roman Volosatoys (Profian), Bailey Hayes (SingleStore), Ralph Squillace (Microsoft), Carl Sverre (SingleStore), Johnnie Birch (Intel)
| Note Taker | Bailey Hayes |


### Agenda

- welcoming new SIG members and attendees
- KubeCon EU adjacent meetup
- lgtm process for github repo
    - Action Item: document stakeholders (michelle)
- review & close open items from user stories document
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/4
- review & merge phases PR
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/5
- summary of async discussions:
    - namespaces — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/8
    - static assets — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/9 (potential agenda item: Fuchsia's archive format)
- Discuss comments for [publication API proposal](https://hackmd.io/IegsPA7IQDOXJgPg7hGByA?view)
  - Added "Content Digest" section since last week

### Notes

- Let's chat at the end to talk about Kubecon EU
- Last week we started working on the repo for the SIG Registry. George and Radu have open PR's.
    - LGTM and Merge process for the GitHub Repo
    - Review period of a week
    - Group of Core maintainers and requires 2 or 3 LGTMs
    - For Specs, requires one representative from each company
    - RFC process in Bytecode Alliance:
        - Peter: We likely do not want to follow the BA RFC process is likely too much process.
        - George: A PR that represents the desire to move from phase 1 to 2, and that might make sense to block until the weekly meeting. Tie it to the phase advancements. We do not want to land something that requires consensus without mediating agreement in the meeting.
        - Radu: We need some process in GitHub. For example User Stories document, there is not yet an LGTM. Do we need to codify that?
        - George: How many different distinct packages are represented in this group?
        - Lann: Adaptive based on how much feedback there is on something. Might not need several LGTM's but need confidence that it has been reviewed.
        - Roman: Looking at the proposal, could it make sense to require N LGTMs, where N == the phase number?
          I.e. to get a proposal for phase 2 merged, 2 LGTMs from different organizations would be required
        - Ralph: Some stakeholders may not have paid attention to the previous phases and then can hold up proposals at larger stages. Like the idea of later phases aiming for higher degree of consensus.
        - Michelle: More LGTMs going down the road is easier to think about, but perhaps we want more buy in the first phase and not in the later phases.
        - Ralph: Yes, that might be better. By that time, 2 or 3 people have toughed it out that entire time. This a flip of Roman's idea. At the end we're often talking about 1 or 2 stakeholders who have pushed it all through, and stakeholders will have done their work up front in the earlier phases.
        - Roman: OK let's start with half the group. To advance we don't need as much approval. That will make it easier to get things moving.
        - Radu: That conflicts with the consensus ideas we discussed last week.
        - George: We build on consensus, go from 10 plausible things to 2.
        - Ralph: Blockchain of previous consensus
        - Radu: As a group we need to make sure we review proposals regularly.
        - Michelle: We require everyone to write a document on their opinions when we do not agree.
        - Proposal: 2 or 3 LGTM's by stakeholders (goal of 3 and can include authors).
    - Phases PR:
        - Is there anything else there that we need to complete? Last thing was consensus.
        - Ralph: directly ping people
        - Radu: the phases and consensus discussions occurred in the meeting, and it shouldn't be controversial since it's documenting what was discussed.
- Radu: we enabled the discussions feature. Please check this out. There is a conversation on [static assessts](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/9).
- Publishing API update from Lan
    - This is a proposal for how to create a new version of a component.
    - The spec breaks down the phases of a releases.
    - The basic overview is that this is split in several steps.
    - Content URLs to the release, sign with asymmetric private key, then publish.
    - They are not mandatory for the overall design, but it is convenient for dividing up the overall design.
    - The only update since last time was for the Content Digest. This specifically calls out delivering multiple files. Could be multiple sub-releases of the URL of the release. Index of the contents of multiple files within the release. This is only at this level of detail to show the cryptographic signature of files.
    - Roman: Why use the lower-hex encoded example? Format for presentation for hash URI. Is there a reason to use hex encoded bytes? Do we want to account for crypto agility? How to adapt to new algorithm? Does this specify the length/hash of the contents? We need to the size of the contents or some other size to ensure the integrity.
    - sha256 are not susceptible to content-length attacks. So not needed.
    - On the less cryptographically agility side. Allow for packageType to be versioned. Rev the package type when the crypto signature changes.
    - Radu: One thing we have seen is the manifest having multiple content digests. Multiple fields that the client can verify that they are interested in verifying.
    - Roman: Would like for Daniel to look at it as well.
    - Carl: One thing I think that is a little annoying, if you do it at that top-level, you have to redigest all of the content to serve it under the new verison.
    - Lann: Sign the entire thing. You cannot modify a release if you want to change the version. The package type could include a verison number.
    - Carl: If sha256 gets replaced by quantum computing, we could ship new components with new component version.
    - Lann: I'm wary of designing for sha256 to be broken.
    - [Subresource Integrity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity)
    - Carl: for those interested in reading more about post-quantum cryptography I found this paper to be useful: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ir/2016/NIST.IR.8105.pdf. For sha-2 it specifically mentions that larger output is needed in a post-quantum world
    - Not automatically better to have more agility. If we want to support orgs that need FIPs compliance, sha256 is FIPs compliance.
    - Radu: Should comments go in GitHub discussion or in document?
    - Lann: Do you see this document as phase 0? How to move to phase 1?
    - George: Phase 1. Broad consensus that we need to do this. Doing dev within the group. We are not yet at the shape of phase 2.
    - The goal is to advance this proposal to phase 2 and develop a prototype for it.
    - Will have a GitHub PR for this and a discussion for this.
    - Michelle: To do pre-proposal / phase 0, create doc (like hackmd) and then a GitHub discussion. For phase 1, open GitHub a PR and close out the discussion thread.
    - Let's use an exiration bot. Exponentinal backoff retry.
    - George: more than a week feels OK. More than the regular synchronous cadence. Expectation is that if we care about the proposal/topic, post when available.
    - GitHub discussion for static assets is a great place to chat and discuss.
- Action Items:
    - Review PR's (everyone)
    - Create PR for Publishing API
