## April 27th — SIG Registries meeting

### Agenda

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Till Schneidereit (Fastly), George Kulakowski (Fastly), Luke Wagner (Fastly), Bailey Hayes (SingleStore), Michelle Dhanani (Fermyon), Radu Matei (Fermyon), Brian Hardock (Fermyon), Ralph Squillace (Microsoft), Lann Martin (Fermyon), Taylor Thomas (Cosmonic), Luke Wagner (Fastly), Nicholas Farshidmehr (Profian), Johnnie Birch (Intel)
| Note Taker | George Kulakowski (Fastly) |

- welcoming new SIG members and meeting attendees
- rotating note takers
- [github repo](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries)
    - registries glossary
    - process: [phases](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/5) and consensus
    - user stories — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/4
    - asynchronous discussions — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions
- summary of async discussions from the last week
- Sharing meeting notes with the TSC and Board?
- updates on `PackageMetadata` (https://hackmd.io/@radu/rkoq-cZ45)
    - what is a signature? (10 minutes)
- publishing components to the registry
    - proposal (https://hackmd.io/@lann/HyRgNk1B9)
- In person get together around KubeCon EU?

### Notes
- Github Repo
    - George: Till created the GitHub repository, and there are a few open PR next on the agenda
    - Till: visibility gated on being in the bytecode alliance, and everyone in the registries sig is a maintainer on it
    - Till: github discussions enabled there. note that we also have zulip
    - Till: zoo of documents in different forms. may want to get more of them
      into markdown in the repository. in particular the overview, and meeting
      notes seem like good starting points
    - Michelle: CNCF has a community section in repos with links to chats /
      notes / etc
    - Radu: I started with the user stories

- Board / TSC : Meeting notes / progress
    - Till: Interest in being able to follow along. At first via
      meeting notes. Wanted to get consent here. However meeting notes
      are low level and noisy. The TSC agreed that SIGs should have
      a requirement to have ~monthly high-level overview of noteworthy
      developments made available *at least* to Bytecode Alliance members,
      if not publicly
    - George: could have last note taker do the synthesis
    - Michelle: can have another place to check in updates, and then
      do standup-style updates
    - Till: wonder if a running document / changelog
    - Radu: do we want to start doing this from this point forward
    - Till: maybe seeding this document with a State of the Registries
    - Radu: any opposition? and I volunteer to do the first time around

- Glossary
    - Radu: A lot of terminology, some going back a while
      Nice to have a document with all of this. Any experience with
      maintaining such a document?
    - George: capturing the state right now and updating going forward are separate things. We should start small (e.g. what is a registry), and as we build it out, terms that come out from design discussion should be agreed on.
    - Radu: any volunteer for capturing the start of words we use?
    - Bailey: would we put these in a glossary.md? I'm playing catchup
    - Radu: yes exactly

- Process
    - George: last time, Till and I agreed to spend some time talking about how to have some structure for the process. We talked about the overall Wasm proposal phases for standardization — which has a bit more overhead than what we need. So we distilled it down to 3 phases. This [PR](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/5) captures what we talked about. Phase 1 is agreement that there is a particular feature / design that people want to work on. Those "proposal participants" can collaborate between meetings to share the general shape of the feature / design, and not to "bikeshed" over details. Phase 2 gets into the requirements. Once we have the general shape, we can start agreeing on actual details. Phase 3 is implementation on the design. I was careful not to state "specification" as the output for phase 3. For instance, the HTTP API we have been talking about could have an implementation (not necessarily source code). I did not tackle "consensus" in the document. Till?
    - Till: before talking about consensus, I want to highlight that at the end of Phase 2 we should have the aspiration to produce documents that can be used to build implementations. Enabling multiple implementations are a goal of this group.
    - George: actually implementing things is also a goal of this group, but I don't think we want to impose having multiple implementation as a requirement for Phase 3.
    - George: I would suggest we make all other comments related to this as PR comments.
    - Till: we should have an agreement on how to reach consensus before having a contentious issue. I would propose we use what the Wasm CG does, which is trying for just consensus (i.e. "does anyone object to moving this item to the next phase", and hopefully no one objects. Or better, "does anyone think we need a full vote to advance this item?". If yes, then we do a vote (Wasm CG use SF, F, N, A, SA, and the chairs decide whether consensus has been reached. i.e. 51-49 is probably NOT consensus. This is meant to encourage that "by and large", the group agrees.)) If no one disagrees, I suggest we use this process (and capture it).
    - George: do we have explicit names for these types of consensus?
    - Till: one term I heard was "lazy consensus" (i.e. "does anyone think we need to do the full process?").
    - Lann: I think IETF calls it "rough consensus"
    - Till: about the phases, part of the model is to explicitly
      state what is in scope for a phase, in both directions! too detailed
      in phase 1, too re-litigating agreed shapes in phase 2...
     - Radu: for this process to work well, we need to define what is in
       scope
    - George: do you mean we need it in general, or that every specific
      design needs to commit to its specific phase exit criteria
    - Till: people might disagree with which details matter. my experience
      with TC 39 (javascript standardization) is that it was in practice
      not an issue. and that consensus is still the mechanism for
      advancing from phase to phase
    - Radu: do we agree that this is better structure than we had before?
    - group: yes
    - George: I'll take wordsmithing feedback for a couple days, then land it

- User stories markdown
    - Radu: some unresolved comments on the google doc, I've been
      translating to github and re-pinging commentors. I want to
      resolve all comments before landing
    - Michelle: I just think my outstanding comment needs more
      discussion from the group, so take a look. **ACTION ITEM**
    - Radu: as an agenda item for next week, reviewing open pull requests

- summary of last week's async discussions
    - Radu: think that Github discussions is an accessible place
      to have those discussions
    - Radu: also think we roll over discussions from the previous week
      in this agenda
    - Michelle: can we get an LGTM process for github
    - Radu: added as an action item for next week

- `PackageMetadata`
    - Radu: very quick update to these from last week.
    - Radu: big change week over week is appending signatures
    - Radu: What is a signature? And what are the objects of signatures?
    - Radu: we need to distinguish between *named packages*,
      *package releases*, and *package contents*. We need to agree
      on what registries talk about, to know what signatures sign
    - Michelle: last week we talked about wanting to know who published
      something, and we might want different signatures validating the
      contents of the actual package. And so should those live in the module
      itself, or outside? And we also talked about additional signatures
      made after the fact of publication, with the example of security
      reviews
    - Lann: I think we are building a registry and not an entire
      secure software supply chain pipeline. And we still want to
      enable and not get in the way of those things
    - Ralph: Nathaniel had some points about naming and publishing, and
      we need to get to consensus on it
    - Michelle: can we make "what is a signature" into a github issue?

- publishing components to the registry
    - Radu: following user story A, maybe partly story B too
    - Radu: last week Peter gave us a demo of using cargo-based tooling
      to do this for Rust for creating
    - Radu: now we can look at *publishing* and the API for publishing
      and querying published artifacts
    - Lann: been working on a proposal for that API
        - notetakers note, actually look at the API doc, notes about design doc overviews are always slightly wrong in the details ;p
    - Lann: *screenshare of a hackmd of the API* (https://hackmd.io/@lann/HyRgNk1B9)
    - Lann: publishing split into steps to keep the mechanism
      for each phase simple
    - Lann: currenly focused on components but could be generalized to
      other artifacts
    - Lann: currently implicitly proposing a name format, but its orthogonal
    - Lann: step 1: creating an unpublished release. note that creating it requires committing to a particular binary (ie it includes a hash digest), but you don't provide content yet
    - Lann: step 2: adding an upload URL
    - Lann: step 3: actually providing release content via one of a few mechanisms (directly, indirectly via url, ipfs, ...). signatures are in scope for some of these upload mechanisms
    - Lann: those URLs can be modified after the fact (but the content digest needs to match!)
    - Lann: in this proposal, i'm suggesting you sign exactly the release manifest as described in the first phase. alternatives include canonicalized versions of that information
    - Lann: ability to get release information, which can include other (meta)data populated by the registry implementation
    - George: meta-question re: phases: can we get this going in the github
      discussion format etc?
      Radu: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/1
          **Action Item**: Discuss general shape of publish API on this discussion thread
      Lann: release annotations added to this document. This is where yanks could live for example.

- KubeCon EU adjacent meetup
    - Taylor: if enough of us attending, could do an in person meetup
    - Taylor: keep it in mind!

- Action Items
    - agree on a github lgtm mechanism
    - Radu: make a "what is a signature" github discussion - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/7
    - discuss the general shape of the publication APIs on the github discussion thread
    - Radu: directly ping stakeholders who happened not to attend this
      meeting
    - all: review the user stories import into markdown
    - all: review the phases PR
