## June 15th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  |
| Note Taker | |

### Agenda
- welcoming new SIG members and attendees
- volunteer(s) for note taking
- [Discovery API](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/16)
- signatures:
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/7
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/17


### Notes

* Discovery API
  * Brian presenting:
    * cleaned up for consistency with Publish API
    * What do we want to filter on? From use-cases:
      Signatures, License, semver query
    * Pagination: just an example; main point is support needed
    * Two APIs:
      * GET /components
      * GET specific version namespaced by package name
  * Confusion over broken markdown syntax; missing list item `*`s
  * Nathaniel: discussed publisher role previously; good to search by signing identity.
  * Brian: captured in vague "signatures" query field

* Signatures
  * Lann: first discussion is a broad discussion of what a signature is, and different entities; second discussion is more specific to choosing a viable signature format for our APIs. Continuing the discussion here would be great.
  * Lann: Nathaniel, now would be a good time to discuss the publisher role?
  * Nathaniel: components as append-only logs — do we want to expand on this a bit in a proposal?
  * Nathaniel: the publisher would be the entity that would start the append-only role, which would branch for versions. (start with a creation event, and continue with a version event. This could be the core definition of a publisher role, and we could introduce other roles in the future. This would give us a clear definition of what a publisher is. It would also allow us to add other metadata — a builder role could attach signed metadata that a build artifact is produced — this would be separate and distinct than the publisher role).
  * Lann: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X8vBHNkB48XbnRsnX2_2L45a8Hfkk-FEalCFmi3jvCE/edit#
  * Lann: the general topic of whether we should model package history and versioning in this append-only log would be a good discussion for everyone to have a look at, as this introduces certain areas of complexity. I am not opposed to this idea, but we should discuss it as a group. There are other appealing properties, such as being able to enforce properties in mirrors, but the complexity is real — in the client. It's a broader discussion about what we think the security properties of the registry should b e.
  * Nathaniel: we gain the ability to detect anomalies, in particular server malicious transformations. If we have two mirrors with two different DAGs for the content, we can detect that something has occured and try to restore the situation. I don't think we have to push the implementation to the client entirely — the client can trust the server for normal operations, which would simplify the client, but still allows for malicious activity to be detected over the long term. We can expose the append-only log as one interface, but expose an endpoint for clients that don't require all the validation.
  * Lann: you might be worried about a scenario where a compromised server would serve a different log to a client. To have a more strict security stance, you need all clients to verify the lgos.
  * Nathaniel: but it's detectable — I can see that if I get one log now, and a different history in the future, I can detect that. Detectability is importanbt here.
  * Lann: in the face of a compromised registry, detectability is great. A step back from the nuance, there is a complexity-security trade-off discussion we have to make as a group.
  * Nathaniel: I am not sure that the status quo is without problems. I am not asking us to make a trade-off, I hope that we can provide both — have a simple interface, with a way to detect problems after the fact.
  * Nathaniel: if we have a publisher role, that forks the log for versioning. We can detect malicicious intent in the logs — this can be independent researchers, log analysis. Once we identify an anomaly, we can go back and rectify things. Even if the client never uses it, it is useful for the client anyway.
  * Nathaniel: I am all for an API that gets people running immediately. But if we dont build something like this, it will be impossible.
  * Lann: I just want to make sure we discuss the trade-offs we are choosing to make.
  * Luke: there is a desire to do a fundamental improvement over what came before. If we are talking about an understandable increase in complexity for something we think the future is going without sacrificing developer experience, we should try to improve the status quo.
  * Lann: I am proposing an idea that could be more broadly applied.
  * Guy: if a publisher has an append-only log, are they signing each new transaction with a hash of the previous transactions?
  * Lann: yes.
  * Nathaniel: git solves this by rejecting pushes to the log if the publisher is not based on the latest changes.
  * Lann: this does not need to be exposed to the user.
  * Radu:
  * Nathaniel: you would have to do a pull before the first release, append the entry, then re-upload the diff.
  * Nathaniel: for most people, there should be a `release` command that does this behind the scenes.
  * Luke: git repository analogy
  * Lann: I think you can implement this with a git repo. This would force you into the git cryptographic choices.
  * Nathaniel: maybe we just accept that? I am not arguing either for or against it.
  * Guy: unlike git, you can only append, so changes have to be specific change transactions if we go for an immutable registry.
  * Lann: an immutable log implies you can't remove a release without deleting the entire package. We talked about annotations, so from a UX perspective you can make releases unavailable, but the data is still there. Just another consideration.
  * Nathaniel: one development we had in the publish API, we are not publishing the contents directly. Because that is baked into the protocol, DMCA becomes less worrying, as the log only contains a version and a hash.

  * Nathaniel: I think the security vulnerabilities of JWS were overblown. The spec states the algorithm must be specified in the protected header, and some implementations ignored that. All these have been repaired IIRC.
  * Lann: it has been a similar defect with multiple implementation. If you are doing crypto agility, the algorithm should be in the key.
  * Lann: I would not choose JWS for any new protocol, but I wouldn't veto it. I just don't think it's a good default choice compared to something like DSEE.
  * Guy: what usage does DSSE have?
  * Lann: in-toto, TUF, sigstore.
  * Nathaniel: I don't buy the idea that the algorithm should be in the signature.
  * Nathaniel: IMO you want the algorithm in both the key and sigature, and don't compute anything unless they match.
  * Lann: DSSE does not provide the same feature set. It requires out of band agreement on the algorithm.
  * Nathaniel: you shouldn't start doing the math unless everything else lines up.
  * Lann: DSSE requires you do that ahead of time.
  * Lann: you always have to choose the algorithm you are checking the signature with.
  * Nathaniel: you have two math numbers involved: the key and the signature. Theoretically the signature was produced with the key and algorithm. If you assume the algorithm is correct, you are handing an attacker something they can exploit. If both the key and signature contain the algorithm, you can check that. In JWS, both the key and signature record the algorithm, but some implementations were naive in how they checked that.
  * Lann: the problem was that the information was there and people were using it incorrectly, widely across many libraries, which is the issue.
  * Nathaniel: I am an implementor of the JOSE system, and my implementation did not have this vulnerability. I am not saying it could not have been more clear; It does have some criticism, but what I am seeing people replacing it with is something less good, which is why I would choose we implement JOSE. Sure, alternatives are simpler, but not better in any regard.
  * Lann: stepping back, it feels like Nathaniel and I have a philosophical disagreement on this. Does anyone else have an approach to resolve this?

* Peter: Till is on an extended leave for a while, so he might not be available for BCA things for a while.
