# WASI Component Registry Weekly Sync

## August 3rd - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Luke Wagner, Peter Huene, Lann Martin, Roman Volosatovs, Radu Matei, Kyle Brown, Brian Hardock, Johnnie Birch, Michelle Dhanani, Taylor Thomas,
| Note Taker | Bailey Hayes

### Agenda

- [Kyle] Status [Log-based Registry Proposal](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/blob/proposal/log-based-registry/proposals/Log-Based-Registry.md) ([PR #25](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/25))
    - any issues we need to resolve?
    - No strong take-aways for hashing and bashing
    - Have general picture to start prototyping soon
    - Prototype of log-based validation
    - Nathaniel: show code for full-parsing of all of the objects. Backend implementation for the 3 primary sets of signing algorithms. Does not include CGRT curves. Tying them all together to do easy signing.
    - Kyle: We can leave stubs/placeholders/mocks
    - Nathaniel: We need to resolve the permissions mechanism. Either roles structure or delegation, etc
    - Kyle: instead of roles, have permissions/capabilities
    - Nathaniel: idea is that each message has a type, whether or not you can append that type to the log is dependent on permissions you've been given to the log. Role implicit, capability explicit. If you have someone you want to be able to yank when there is an active CVE, that could be distinguishable from someone who has the release ability. If we add new message types, there will never be any ambiguity
    - Kyle: roles are simple.
    - Nathaniel: Have the most expressive and simple concept for log parsing. 
    - Lann: There might be some difficulty in defining the role of the operator in this context. If you have just one permission that let's you modify permissions, then any actor with that, then they are basically a super-user. I'm not sure how that squares with what an operator is allowed to do with its own registry.
    - Nathaniel: move the message and yank primitives to annotations themselves. Those messages impact the validity of the log. You could parse the log and deal with "critical" messages, and a separate pass that looks at the messages in the log.
    - Kyle: If you give someone the ability to grant, if you ever want to make something more specific/complex and inter admin permissioning, then you may want to be able to grant with some predicate attached to it.
    - Lann: concerned about carefully slicing up a protocol when we don't have a thing to slice.
    - Nathaniel: isolate messages that impact log validity so we hope that will help isolate. Want to see more around delegation. We currently have two which is release and yank.
    - Kyle: Goal is to define the state of packages and start exploring publish and retrieve of component.
    - Radu: What is the minimum number of messages that we have to define to publish a component and to retrieve it? That can unblock a number of things. Then in parallel we can go back and flush out other message types.
    - Kyle: assign and remove, release, yank - enough for a demo.
    - Poll: moving forward with the above to begin POC
- [Nathaniel]: review of threat model document. In parallel to core 4 message protocol.
- Bailey: what are some more work streams we can start?
- Kyle: Content distribution API
- Lann: Package format / multi-file bundling
- Nathaniel: signature doesn't need to be added to the package format.
- Kyle: Component model is one big blob. Not necessarily bindled, but we might be talking about multiple files to include profiles.
- Nathaniel: How to treat a component which is itself is a language runtime like python. The interpreter is compiled to a Wasm component. We haven't discussed how this will work.
- Luke: Components can import core modules. The idea is to publish them as a different kind of package. Meant to fuse and share memory with the component that imports it. We don't have to call it a module package, but some higher-level word. Components that user want to use, the runtime pieces can make this just work. Separate kind of package, they don't want to see cpython, they want to use a component that leverages cpython. For profiles and interfaces, wit file could be fine. Binary version even? A .world file could be the entire contents of a package. Interfaces, profiles, components, and modules (modules being this core thing).
- Lann: when we're talking about dependencies for components, it might be in a lock file?
- Luke: Alternative representation that is expanded out, this is an alternative or optimization, but the goal/basis is you can 1.wasm. Just the bits I want.
- Nathaniel: If you're asking for only a subset, then you can hash and match with what is in the log.
- Luke: One package can be a tree. I want to be able to zoom in.
- Kyle: Is .wasm the intended extension for components?
- Radu: ^^ as far as I know yes, and the first few bytes indicate whether it’s a core module or a component. [Binary spec of component model](https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/blob/main/design/mvp/Binary.md)
- Lann: Publish API does specify how to digest a tree of content. [content-digest](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/blob/main/proposals/Publish-API.md#content-digest)
- Brian: I’ll have a draft PR for wit-bindgen capturing the initial profile disccusions / format design this afternoon.
- Brian: File system layout - represents local reflection of a registry. Prototype some of the tooling we want to build.
- Nathaniel: Writing Jose code, two questions that are non-technical. What license? Should this be in the BCA or should it be under rust crypto for example?
- Radu: For re-licensing, we need to ask this question to the board or the TSC. 
- Lann: Fine with it being rust-crypto, we're already depending on it in the prototype.
- Nathaniel: Uses rust crypto crates - goal support wasi-crypto in the future.
- Santiago was at NYU now Perdue, scheduling issues prevented him to join.
- Bailey: gonna create issues for high-level work items.
