## July 27th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Luke Wagner, Peter Huene, Lann Martin, Roman Volosatovs, Radu Matei, Kyle Brown, Brian Hardock, Johnnie Birch, Taylor Thomas, Nicholas Farshidmehr,
| Note Taker | Radu Matei

### Agenda

- [Kyle] [Log-based Registry Proposal](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/blob/proposal/log-based-registry/proposals/Log-Based-Registry.md) ([PR #25](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/25))
    - Kyle: going over the discussions since last week on GitHub
    - Kyle: introdicing the discussions around hashing algorithms, permissions for annotations, operator entries, and transfering ownership
    - Radu: what are the discussions that we need to resolve to build the MVP?
    - Kyle: hashing and batching (any guarantee that either all or none are included in the log). Batching has implications for a few separate reasons.
    - Radu: I'm in favor of getting started on the prototype.
    - Kyle: **if you have opinions, please comment in the discussions**
- [Peter] `wasm-compose` and what it means for the registry
    - Peter: pretty basic prototype. Runtime support in Wasmtime is early. In the next few weeks, the Wasmtime implementation should allow us to use more complex types. I hope to integrate registry functionality in the future here.
    - Peter: with the configuration file, it can be considered as a Wasmlink replacement.
    
