## July 13th - SIG Registries meeting
|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Luke Wagner, Peter Huene, Bailey Hayes, Michelle Dhanani, Lann Martin, Brian Hardock, Nicholas Farshidmehr, Roman Volosatovs, Isabella, jlbirch
| Note Taker | 

### Agenda

- Update on cargo component
    - Close to generating, building, and running components (pending proposals)
    - Peter is working on tooling for linking components
- Glossary merged ([#6](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/6))
- Rename Entities to Packages ([#23](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/issues/23))
- [registry](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry) discussion
    - [async support discussion](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/issues/1)
- Profiles discussion 
    - [WASI Preview2 presentation](https://github.com/WebAssembly/meetings/blob/main/wasi/2022/presentations/2022-06-30-gohman-wasi-preview2.pdf)
