## January 26th - WASI Registry meeting

### Agenda

- updates from the proto-TSC
    - are there ways to get involved and help?
    - Till: worked through almost all feedback. In parallel to the last remaining feedback, I am preparing a governance repository with the HTML versions of our bylaws, and the TSC charter, the SIG registry charter, and a few other things. I'll do a last call before pushing things. Ideally, we wouldn't have to do any PR, so this ould be a soft launch.
    - Till: once I have the docs in a publishable state, I will reach out for reviews.
- summary of the Bindle meeting (notes below), next steps
    - Nathaniel: we need to pin to a hash in our deployment model, and we took a long time to get there, but I think we got there. It looks like Bindle can be made to do what we need. There is still the question about Luke's registyr proposal and Bindle, and whehter Bindle satisfies those. The good news is I think we can collaborate.
    - Luke: can Bindle be used to model a git tree?
    - Nathaniel: if you can map your concepts and state on top of a Merkle tree, we should be able to do Bindle do what we need.
    - Nathaniel: client vs. server side?
    - Luke: if this was spec'ed well enough, you should be flexible
    - Nathaniel: in our case, any time you launch a workload that talks to a remote party it creates an attractive place to start a compromise (snifing vulnerable workloads an attacker can exploit).

- user stories document - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QV0iXQBEqnE9CtNAhwH-oD7PBRnfeREj2nWZmw_zO8M/edit#
    - Nathaniel: do we want a small sub-committee that works on the API for this? I think Luke should be on this team, but it might be nice to have a very small group that could work efficiently that would produce an API design that we could present, get feedback on, then implement.
    - Nathaniel: if no one else objects, I will self-nominate. I think it's important for it to be fairly small
    - Luke: what might be good would be to have agreement on what user stories we want to satisfy - scoping the MVP.
    - Michelle: does everyone have time to review the MVP document?
    - Nathaniel: I'd like to put some user stories in the document
    - Till: could we get the user stories quicker? My hope is that we should converge on the MVP quickly.
    - Nathaniel: I see the user stories as very dev-centric, there are none from the perspective of an operator (?).
    - Radu: I agree, we should keep these in mind, I'd be curious to see what difference there would be in terms of API changes based on these.
    - Till: Luke and I identified a number of things that are not dev-centric, and we are sketching out some user stories. Not sure it should be in the MVP, but also the ability to integrate a registry into deployment workflows. Probably a small difference, but might have some impact in the API surface.
    - Nathaniel: as long as we have a good design for the data structures.

- development on the component model
    - Till: Luke has been working with Alex and Aaron on the async IO model and streams, to the point where we converged on a design everyone is happy with, and Alex is working on the implementation.
    - Till: in parallel, we are confident in the binary encoding of the component model, after Luke and Peter have been working on this over the last few weeks.  This is at a point where we can scale the implementations in the various places where we use components (wasm-tools, Wasmtime...).
    - Till: after we have this, another part we want is emitting JS glue code. Browsers will not be able to natively run components for a while, but we could emit some JS glue code that wraps the components in core modules. The biggest take-aways is we are on the home stretch and we try to finish the implementations as soon as possible.
    - Luke: converging rapidly, trying to have real binary components.
    - Peter: pending updates to the component model spec. Almost at a place where the encoder and the parser, API updates are almost there. With this in place, Nick and Dan will be up and running so the rest of the Wasm tools can be updated in a separate branch. The model linking work will be superceded by the component model.
    - Luke: Alex is working in WIT bindgen to add streams and async support.
    - Brian: is the binary work in the binary encoder yet?
    - Peter: the file format should be self-described, so we can generate bindings directly from the binary module. It doesn't encode comments, so there might be some extra custom sections for annotating them, but that hasn't been worked out yet.
    - Till: we will be in the business of specifying the format for doc comments.
    - Till: for futures, Alex is implementing that so we could play around with them soon.
