## July 20th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Luke Wagner, Peter Huene, Bailey Hayes, Michelle Dhanani, Lann Martin, Roman Volosatovs, Radu Matei, Kyle Brown, Nathaniel McCallum, Ralph Squillace, Brian Hardock, Johnnie Birch
| Note Taker | Radu Matei

### Agenda

- [Kyle] [Log-based Registry Proposal](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/blob/proposal/log-based-registry/proposals/Log-Based-Registry.md) ([PR #25](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/25))
    - Kyle: combining the common elements from sketches from Nathaniel and Lann. This will look familiar to people who have seen the other proposals.
    - Kyle: there are log entries that represent updates to the state of a package. The entries are the payload of the JWS signed with the author keys. There are a few fundamental "types(?)": initialize log, assign role, remove role, release, yank.
    - Lann: this is only covering the cryptographic, security guarantees part of the log design. A specific registry implementation could add more rules on top of this model.
    - Ralph: I see "yank", and I want to ask about how we see "yank" vs. "delete".
    - Nathaniel: as we've moved towards a model where a release creates an entry in a log that refers to the content, "delete" is a different operation.
    - Nathaniel: the log is immutable, and you have the hash of a release, but the actual contents where the URL points can be deleted. One of the things I put together in my sketch was that a URL to the contents might be able to be updated.
    - Kyle: Lann's sketch also had a similar concept.
    - Nathaniel: generally speaking, there is positive sentiment for allowing custom annotations, which could be used to apply comments / standardized annotations.
    - Radu:
    - Ralph: I'm seeing that everything we need to have is here, but there is no formal statement for "delete" here. How is the log going to report a deletion of a release?
    - Kyle: if it's a signal that you're no longer hosting the content, that is takedown. Whether that is an entry type or annotation, we have to discuss.
    - Nathaniel: if annotations let us sandbox some new message types, and depending on their desirabiliyt would move to a proper message type. Generally, I think we want to keep the number of messages to a minimum, and only to messages that relate to the integrity of the log.
    - Ralph: annotations are a fine way to model this and see what happens later.
    - Radu: where Ralph might be coming from is annotations that were never standardized in OCI.
    - Nathaniel: annotations might be able to be standardized as annotations.
    - Lann: the distinction I would make: the top level message types must be validated, so anything that is integral must be a top level type.
    - Kyle: I agree.
    - Kyle: a few open questions: some regarding the cryptographic design, some details on public keys. The other big one is around annotations. 
    - Nathaniel: there might be other top level events â€” a cryptographic policy entity, i.e. these are the allowed algorithms.
    - Kyle: does anyone have particular interests in annotations vs. cryptographic side?
    - Luke: maybe the annotation direction? URL?
    - Lann: the content URL doesn't technically need to be part of the log. The security guarantee is by having the content digest.
    - Kyle: for hosting, one thing we could do is an API for content retrieval
    - _discussion about URLs and annotations_
    - Nathaniel: since we're relying on signatures that themselves have a single digest, allowing for hash sets is probably not the best use. Thanks for the argument Lann. I would like to focus on the recovery mode of a log.
    - Lann: thank you for putting this together, Kyle, I appreciate the work.
    - Bailey: procedurally, what's the game plan, Kyle?
    - Kyle: that's part of the question. Most of them I think it makes sense to track in a discussion and put them on the agenda. Unless there are objections, I plan to create issues, then link them in the pull request.
    - Luke: does this extend or replace the current publishing API?
    - Lann: there are changes, for sure.
    - Nathaniel: one of the changes is whether or not the publish API will allow multiple log entries to be uploaded atomically. I suspect we want to allow this.
    - Lann: this proposal allows for mirroring to be significantly better than the industry standard, from a security perspective.
    - Luke: if we have this proposal augmenting and enhancing the publishing API, do we have a complimentary proposal for retrieval?
    - Kyle: that's something we need to implement as part of the MVP.
    - Kyle, Bailey: our vote is to move forward
    - Ralph: the only reason we'd stall this is to work on the MVP first.
    - Bailey: for me, I think this satisfies a lot of the core MVP requirements, and this is a back-bone of the implementation.
    - Kyle: we'll stay as an open PR for the ongoing discussion
