## June 8th - SIG Registries meeting

### Agenda

- welcoming new SIG members and attendees
- the publishing API
    - PR: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/10
    - call to action: review, vote for phase 2
    - LGTMs from 3 organizations so far
- introduce release annotations: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/11
- [Luke]: Have folks seen [Buf](https://buf.build/)? It seems like we would (eventually) want roughly this for "interface" and "profile" packages.  Do others agree?
- Any other interested parties in shepparding Discovery API discussion & proposal ?
- other discussions â€” https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions

### Notes

- PR#10 and moving to phase 2
    - Nathaniel: recaps the KubeCon discussions around the publishing API
    - Ralph: I'd like to discuss PR#10 as it exists right now, with the acknowledgement that we offline try to identify any effects of the conversation during KubeCon.
    - Nathaniel: in PR#10, what is the status of multiple signatures on a particular artifact?
    - Lann: we did have a discussion, and in that meeting we discussed the scope of supply chain security features.
    - Nathaniel: I would like for this to be a first class feature of the registry.
    - Lann: release annotations, which I plan on talking about next, might address this. I have not discussed the data structure, but the intention is for it to be an append-only log.
    - Nathaniel: if someone publishes a release, but later wants to sign it.
    - Lann: in my proposal, the publisher has to sign a release as the publisher identity. If we allow the addition of more signatures after the release..
    - Nathaniel: what is a publisher, and what is the purpose of a publisher's signature? If we made all signatures part of an append-only log, then you could upload an unsigned artifact, then append signatures over time with different meanings.
    - Ralph: there will be a requirement to add signatures over time, and you will want to know the specific order in which they were attached. This use case is critically important, I'm not sure we're discussing the way the feature has to be implemented. This can be addressed multiple ways, so the feature should be kept in mind. Your approach Lann seems fine. The feature of "understood order signatures" is important to be kept in mind.
    - Nathaniel: and the ability to query signatures.
    - Nathaniel: in your proposal Lann, is there a way to detach signing from the release?
    - Lann: I imagined an always present signature, that of a publisher. The publication signature is that the publisher is "tagging" an artifact with a name and version. Does that sound right?
    - Nathaniel: it is "a" kind of an assertion.
    - Ralph: what other kind of publisher?
    - Lann: i have a proposal to turn any event associated with a particular package name into an immutable log.
    - Nathaniel: Agrees with Lann about primary purpose of registry, but suspects that each name in the registry is an append-only log of states. Each name in registry is assocaited with publisher public key.
    - Ralph: Believes we are driving toward the same objective. Wants to bring impactful kubecon convos into this PR.
    - Lann: To address some of these concerns going to drop a document https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X8vBHNkB48XbnRsnX2_2L45a8Hfkk-FEalCFmi3jvCE/edit
    - Nathaniel: Is the lack of design around an explicit append-only log a tier boundary issue?
    - Radu: Mentions Bailey's comment in chat: "the scope of the PR as I read it does not deal with adding later signatures or the state of data structures for how it works. The goal of that PR is define a REST API to publish the initial artifact"
    - Radu: Would like to move forward in parallel with prototype and using an append-only log
    - Nathaniel: What if we moved into tier 2 with the understanding that we'd like to explore an append-only log iterator of this as acceptable modifitcation of the tier 2 process?
    - Ralph: Agrees
    - Radu: Given the agreement in this meeting, can we formally advance to phase 2?
    - Nathaniel: Bringing Luke up to speed; Package name being an append-only log. Discussion around the implications on the publish api PR#10. To avoid bikeshedding, we can move to tier 2 and subcommitte discuss append-only log
    - Radu: Are we in agreement to move proposal to phase 2 and merge the PR?
    - Everyone agrees ....
    - PR#10 merged
    - Tier 2 process document: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/blob/main/phases.md
    - Nathaniel: Is phase 2 a global discussion or subcommitte?
    - Radu: I would assume a natural group of interested parties would form around it?
    - Ralph & Nathaniel: Interested parties will convene offline and bring the results back to the group for phase 2.
    - Radu: Coordinate in github discussion for people not in this call for participating in phase 2 working group

- Buf
    - Luke: Introduces Buf and interested in things we can learn for "profile" and "interface" packages.
    - Ralph: Excited to look at it

- [Release annotations](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/11)
    - Lann: Helps to inform the features that come after the publish API. Basic idea is that releases are immutable but we may want to add information after a release step. Part of thinking behind this is an immutable log. Primary usecases are "yank" and "takedown" scenarios.
    - Ralph: Will provide feedback
    - Nathaniel: Aligned with what I was thinking. Can we pick a signature format?
    - Lann: Perfect discussion for a phase 2 discussion
    - Nathaniel: We can use the learnings of the tier 2 process for the publish api to birth a signature format

- Random convo about [Renaming "function" to "func"](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wit-bindgen/pull/232)
    - Bailey: Do it now or never
    - Ralph: How do the group of us weigh in to support the rename?
    - Luke: On standardizing WIT, who / where does it?
    - Luke: Will see about pushing to "func"

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Radu Matei (Fermyon), Lann Martin (Fermyon), Brian Hardock (Fermyon), Peter Huene (Fastly), Luke Wagner (Fastly), Johnnie Birch (Intel), Taylor Thomas (Cosmonic), Isabella Tromba (Tangram), Nathaniel McCallum (Profian), Roman Volosatovs (Profian), Bailey Hayes (SingleStore), Guy Bedford (Fastly), Nicholas Farshidmehr (Profian),
| Note Taker | Brian Hardock (Fermyon) |
