## Oct. 5th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Lann Martin, Kyle Brown, Bailey Hayes, Luke Wagner, Mossaka, George Kulakowski, Nicholas Farshidmehr, Roman Volosatovs, Brian Hardock
| Note Taker | Lann Martin

- [Brian] [Governance supporting members discussion](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/42)
  - Created PR to update governance repo: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/pull/13
- [Kyle] Kubecon update: Reviewed slides on Monday, got feedback; for "middle half" technical overview going to stay light on technical detail, not enough time for anything in-depth: overview of high-level data structures, terminology, and one attack scenario (operator tries to lie about the past) and mitigation.
- [Bailey] working on blog; getting close to first draft in next day or so; will send out for review
- [Kyle] Any update from Ralph on IP questions? Not yet; Mossaka checked with Ralph who will try to get more info this week.
- [Bailey] Who is going to Kubecon? [Some, not all in call.] Will organize some in-person meeting. Tentatively Monday 4:30-5:30
- [Kyle] Quick presentation of Kubecon slides.
