## Oct. 19th - SIG Registries meeting
	
|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Kyle Brown, Bailey Hayes, Taylor Thomas, Roman Volosatovs, Brian Hardock, Peter Heune
| Note Taker | Bailey Hayes

- [Kyle & Bailey] - naming convention for library-like components, e.g. libURL. HTTP Handler, HTTP-Types are all interfaces and not components.
- [Bailey] - blog is behind, plans to release after kubecon
- [Ralph] - Design API that might work that would be what a future registry would look like. 
    - use words like potentially, could, want
    - Permission granted to mention a goal to have a canonical registry
    - How we implement the registry and an example implementation if not two in the bytecode alliance.
    - Folks might add warg protocol to existing OCI registry
    - We're doing the API and we're going to have to host a service to do a MVP]
- [Brain] - governance members update: ready to merge
