## May 25th — SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Radu Matei (Fermyon), Lann Martin (Fermyon), Brian Hardock (Fermyon), Peter Huene (Fastly), Luke Wagner (Fastly), George Kulakowski (Fastly), Guy Bedford (Fastly), Johnnie Birch (Intel), Till Schneidereit (Fastly), Michelle Dhanani (Fermyon), Taylor Thomas (Cosmonic), Carl Sverre (SingleStore), Isabella Tromba (Tangram)
| Note Taker | George Kulakowski (Fastly) |

### Agenda

- welcoming new SIG members and attendees
- recap of the discussions during WasmDay and KubeCon
- the publishing API
    - PR — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/10
    - call to action: vote to move to phase 2
- glossary — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/6
    - Johnnie: what's the audience? this group?
    - Radu: yes initially this group
    - George: wanting to be able to be precise about names and terms like yanking and deleting
    - George: left feedback for Bailey to consider landing a skeleton of the glossary and examples, to be able to iterate
- other discussions — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions
    - Michelle: do we want to take times in meetings to decide that discussions can be wrapped up
    - Michelle: also think it'd be nice to talk about next steps
    - Radu: I assumed we'd be able to start building a publish api impl prototype and also not block other activities
    - George: I assumed we'd go deep and broad: other API design, impl work, higher level design work (what is the entire shape of what we're building)
    - Guy: ideas for next API steps: version resolution, and metadata including generic metadata
    - George: are those talked about in Github yet
    - Radu: does that relate to Querying API?
    - Guy: yes, it's a subset of query
    - Radu: I think it makes sense to revisit the initial Query proposal and examine it through the lens of something like version resolution
    - Michelle: should there be a PR
    - Guy: will be collaborating at some level
    - Brian: I can start a discussion
- Next steps
    - Radu: what's up with cargo component
    - Peter: I don't think there's any specific considerations, I view it as just another client of the API
    - Till: can talk about what else is needed to get us to an end to end workflow, even if that workflow is smaller than the entire MVP
    - Till: we have the user stories for an MVP; can we break down those into a subset with an end to end flow
    - Radu: i would assume that is something like: i create and publish something via cargo-component, see it in a web view, and fetch it elsewhere
    - Till: also: when do we want to talk about this publicly? when we've done what set of the user stories?
    - Radu: I think we should start that discussion and decide later
    - Radu: do people feel strongly about the web view
    - George: I feel differently about it for an internal demo vs a Bytecode Alliance blog post
    - Michelle: like down scoping, so keeping it small
    - Lann: metadata and whether/how it's attached to the component
    - Luke: in the single file case I imagined a metadata section
    - Lann: this metadata feels visible in this first E2E prototype
    - Guy: another useful API worth mentioning is a publish-stream API for package version updates, can build tooling on top of the registry
    - Guy: replication really inefficient in NPM, up to an hour delay
    - Guy: have we talked about supply chain security
- supply chain security
    - Guy: what are the current views on that in this group? anyone deploying this would want to know about it
    - Lann: I believe the registry should have only a tangential relationship with supply chain, and that via securely associating a human-readable name to a collection of releases, and to prevent attacks like rollback and upgrade protection
    - Lann: supply chain security goes much deeper than that, like "package X asserted Y". i believe it should be out of scope of the registry, but that we can and should enable it via opaque-to-the-registry metadata etc
    - Lann: I think it's too big and too heterogenous to different groups, to entirely solve in the registry. but I don't think we are meant to solve that problem
    - Till: I think my take is a little bit different. I think we should not load the MVP with requirements around this, and that we should not block off paths towards enabling this
    - Till: but I don't think we should declare all of these things out of scope. we've talked in the past about mechanisms that go beyond what Lann just described, like letting someone declare trust relationships in a way that are taken into account in the version resolution mechanism
    - Taylor: I strongly agree with Lann around this, its very much alongside registry work, but the requirements are so different around eg compilance in different jurisdictions or different corporate policies. I think it's too heavy to have in scope for the registry per se based on what I have seen
    - Lann: I agree with that and want to clarify that I'm not opposed to supply chain security. and I believe that a BA sponsored registry could include supply chain protection features. I want to avoid boiling the ocean in this group specifically.
    - Till: we deliberatly didn't capture any user stories about supply chain security. what is in scope for this group post-MVP is unclear. but I wouldnt agree with consenus on that
    - George: agree with the sentiments above. believe that we don't have consensus on what those bits are or whether a mechanism/policy split to achieve supply chain security is possible or sufficient
    - Radu: agreed about the post MVP thing Till said
    - Luke: Can imagine layering with post MVP work
    - various: blip in notes because of hackmd length limit
    - Till: believe that this group has a unique perspective on building out some aspects of supply chain security
    - Lann: I believe we should lower the trust in the registry, gets into many of these aspects
    - Radu: would getting a discussion about this, to get agreement on what's in scope, be a valuable action item
- release annotations
    - Lann: a way to extend the publish API


### Notes

- welcoming new SIG members and attendees
- recap of the discussions during WasmDay and KubeCon
    - Luke: we are not making a blockchain
    - hopefully more recap from Bailey and others later, hopefully
- the publishing API
    - Radu: are there any blockers to the general shape of the proposal
    - George: want to understand the implications of protocol versioning on this, but don't want to block phase 2
    - Michelle: good candidate for the Future Discussion section
    - Lann: given that this is the first step towards technical design, there'll be crosscutting concerns
    - Till: is there a way to capture this area where there are potential for changes, but to not relitigate everything
    - George: I think we can capture that in the future discussion section, by saying what we'd do in the that case
    - Radu: reminder that the general shape of the proposal is in the right general shape and that we can build prototypes out of
    - everyone: silence => move it to phase 2
    - George: may add more structure to tracking phases and discuss next week
    - Radu: lgtm the proposal so we can merge the pull request
- glossary — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/6
- other discussions — https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions

### Action items
- George: tracking of phases etc
- Everyone: lgtm the Publish api pull request
- Brian: start a discussion for the query API
- George: move the notes into github
