## Sept. 28th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Lann Martin, Kyle Brown, Bailey Hayes, Peter Huene, Johnnie Birch, Luke Wagner, Brian Hardock, Mossaka
| Note Taker | Johnnie Birch

- [Kyle] Kubecon talk on registry
    - Based on the previous slide deck Nathaniel, Lann, Kyle
    - Beginning with "Why are we making a registry"
    - [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bvk93Nr-rVlDzJH5V4RnTelj2TpcebcTRnezJKTjjzE/edit?usp=sharing)
    - Kyle: Kyle and Bailey plan a talk on the registry during kubecon.
    - Lann: This will draw lots of attention. Need to be prepared to respond. Some of that attention may be around a security review. Need to frame the talk that this is pre-security review.
    - Kyle: Agreed, proposed design, not a finalized design.
    - Kyle: So is everyone OK with this, any objections? The goal is to be more open and hopefully will help this go faster.
    - Luke: Gave an anecdote, its advised to go public sooner rather than later.
    - Kyle: Also planning to have some code and a blog post ready.
- [Kyle] IP Protection?
    - Ralph will bring up with board. Ongoing discussion: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/37 
    - Ralph: Took this to the board, but there were questions on the motivation. Is this ask more for accreditation for the contributors or something else.
    - Kyle: Not sure to what factor accreditation was a motive, but the question was definetly motivated at least in part by wanting to protect from others taking the ideas here and having that come back to hurt this effort. It was really for defensive purposes.
    - Ralph: Ok good. Will come back with a more complete update.
- [Kyle] Naming
    - Can we use "warg" (Wasm Registry) to name the registry? (trademark?). Props to Lann for coining this name.
    - If yes **warg** then: we have a [registry](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry) repo. Rename to **warg**
- [Bailey] Blog
    - Bailey: Got some tips from Lin Clark. Need a better diagram discribing world files. Having a visual description is probably important. 
    - Lann: If we feel we can pull together that sort of discription that is great. But if we can just do it by describing interfaces that might work. 
    - Kyle: 3 motivators: Component model, supply chain security and transparency, the ability to balance the tradeoffs assoicated with a registry model.
    - Kyle: Will try to give a dry run of the talk in this meeting.
    - Bailey: And won't need to go too deep into the component model because of Luke's keynote.
    - Bailey: Should be two blog posts. One were people can just tweet out and another that is more in-depth with the ideas.
    - Lann: And one of the blog posts may represent the IP publishing.
    - Lann: The sig registry needs some work before made public.
    - Kyle: The package long also needs work. Probably should comment that we will make these items (the registry repo) public after the talk.
    - Bailey: Having a soft launch is probably a nice thing.
    - Joe: What is the reason we don't want to open-source the sig-registry repo?
    - Kyle: Simply because it is not up-to-date and may not match the blog post and the talk. If there is time to fix this before the talk then open-sourcing is a possiblity.
    - Luke: After the talk where can we expect people to become apart of the discussion.
    - Kyle: At least we can try to clean-up the package log.
    - Kyle: Need someone to update the governance doc for the sig-registry.
    - Luke: Can maybe follow Alex's component model meeting example. Will check to see if we can open this meeting up to the public.
    - Brian: Can take it is an action item to update supporting members on governance doc.
    - Luke: Is cargo component a part of the presentation.
    - Kyle: Doing an end-to-end demo is not a part of the talk??>
    - Bailey: Do we need a vote on warg? 
    - Group: Thumbs Up.
    - Luke: Trying to understand how warg would show in the final developer experience: Urls, cmd line interface. 
    - Kyle: Also on the component side.
    - Lann/Kyle: The protocols needed are non-trival.
- [Kyle] Core Project?
    - We believe we need code to show general flow.
- [Peter] Component Building Demo
    - Peter: Demoed a tool that gave a way to visualize components and connect them.
    - Peter: Can see the imports and exports. Can drag and drop components. Showed a service/compression example. 
    - Peter: Once the component was created it can be downloaded. All of this is just prootyped as a side project. It is based on wasm-compose. Wasm-compose is changing so that will have impact.
    - Group: This is awesome!
