## March 16th â€” SIG Registries meeting

### Agenda
- updates on the Bytecode Alliance, the Technical Steering Committee, and the SIG process
- lockfiles
- deleting vs yanking

The user stories: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QV0iXQBEqnE9CtNAhwH-oD7PBRnfeREj2nWZmw_zO8M/edit#heading=h.gqmuqgumciwt


NOTE: There were no notes taken for the March 9th meeting.
NOTE: Radu was unable to attend meeting; Ralph stumbles through notetaking.

### updates on BCA/TSC, SIGS
- Till:
    - we are now official SIG Registries! All the approvals have happened
    - next steps are moving toward elections, but
    - as a result, we should expect an influx of additional people into the group because there's clearly interest

### Lockfiles
- Till
    - subject came out of the convo by George about thinkning about updates and dependencies and so on, it's possible we hadn't thought about lockfiles _outside_ of locked components. We don't have that for the source code; missing a user story for this. Do we want that for MVP?
- George: should we do the user story?
- Taylor: phrase it as, as a component user I want to be able to have "guaranteed" reproducibility. .... not sure we have to think of a specific implementation.
- George: agree. I want to have
- Till: in response to brian, not sure it's merely an impl of D and E..... reprocible version resolution I actually like
- George: As a component author/client of the registry I want a reproducible version of my stated dependencies.
- Till: you could be an app author, that merely assembles things
- George: I brought this up, as part of a strategy to update and resolve dependencies more than once, I wasn't seeing that explicitly called out, so the objective was to ensure the objective was explicit, not a "lockfile" insistence per se
- Till: basically about pinning down semver queries to specifics?
- Roman: how does that relate to yanking?
- George: next topic, of course
- Luke: doing a cargo component update, shoudl there be a user story? Till: yes
- till: likely distinct; you can't have R without hypothetical S (except if you manually added it)
- Till: who thinks these are separate user stories George: shoudl be if you type the story :-)
- Roman: not the semver but rather the hash; when the think yanks, you wantd it but you didn't get it.
- Luke: knowing you didn't get it is key; is that sufficeint?
- roman: yes, that's good.yanking and deleting
- Till: yanking keeps the lockfile working beause the lockfile working because file is there but not published; the idea is that if something has a security issue that someone who has a lockfile on it it won't work. Deleting has to be done for legal reasons, and in that case things should just be broken full stop.
- Taylor: I think that's it. Bindle does that because experience with OCI swapping out or deleting tags which causes  lot of problems. Yanking and delete is a failure case.
- Till: added a second user story

- Carl: summary, conversation about whether you want semver in the user story or not, so in the case of nightly internal builds to mark by hashes or something, because minor does not do this.
- Luke: doesn't semver has this - something
- Taylor: yeah, how do we get this stuff with other projects are working on this with hippo for build iterations
    - wanted semver for hard representation, but so long as we can add it will cover the nightly scenario
- Carl: sure, but can it be done at the registry level without impacting of success or failure of
- Till: not really about semver; more like sending a query that specifies one bag of bytes at the end of the day (semver is one thing)
- Carl: then what's missing is searching the repo by semver filters
- Luke: D and E do not have SemVer and hmmmm
- George: didn't put hin semver for this reason -- that it wasn't there and also there are several sevmers but so wouldn't use it specifically
- Till: maybe it's not there beause we assumed that it must be there that we didn't call it out.
- Carl: I think we need to add someting about this because it's not obvious to me
- Till: yes, good call out, can we modify D and E?
- Bailey: Allow or disallow "latest"?
- Taylor: I will kill anyone who allows latest
- Peter: would like to enable a "yolo" version
- Luke: I recall some use case that I wanted to update bits for precise version (security) and that would use content hash, but is there a spectrum from the security case to a latest version?
- Roman:
    - houldn't we enforce that actual semver mappings are immutable (i.e. yankable/deletable, but the contents become read-only after the first write/upload)? Otherwise there is no way reproducibility of `foo:1.2.3` can be ensured
- Bailey:
    - If the spec will not allow aliases, then how would HEAD be calculated? Conventionally latest based on semver version
- Luke: could latest be a version, and could it change regularly? I publish a new versio with same tag?
- Carl: if we support updating you just keep pushing to the same version and that's possible. If we switch to a more immutable model but it adds additional items around mistakes?
- Taylor and Ralph go off on mutable tags invoke OCI in vain and try to use Git to demonstrate that it's really just a bad practice.
- Luke: asked ralph question about nathaniel's conversation in the past about semver and content hash correlation; ralph recalled it as being strong.
- Brian: it boils down to associating the identity of a component and its version and a hash. Shoudl we do a use case?
- Carl: yeah, we'd want to find the delta....
- Taylor: I think having a reverse lookup expression or functionality. humans looking for things will need versions, but providing a hash-lookup instead is fine.
- Carl: convo leaning toward immutable which means using yanking and not deleting
- Luke: deleting we must enable and fail; totes fine
- Carl: deletion implies also the metadata not merely the artifact
- Till: I think so because we have the legal scenario, so also no part of the data
- Carl: but we need the version and hash to ensure it's not there. "Tombstoning" according to luke
- Carl: ok, then that needs to be the user story for that
- Ralph: uh, if we don't deliberately remember storage costs for forever artifacts. dockerhub stuff.
- Carl: we need some kind of log for the registry that retiains required metadata (till: agreed)

### Yanking and Deleting
we've moved directly into the yanking and deleting conversation fairly naturally
Carl:
- is there any reason take down package name? yes, because of ip violations. Ralph: there will be component namespace/name squatting
- Till: consensus is that we need both, but we need metadata log, question is how far.
- George: does not any longer believe
