## Nov. 2nd - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Kyle Brown, Bailey Hayes, Luke Wagner, Lann Martin, Roman Volosatovs, Radu Matei, Brian Hardock, Peter Heune, Mossaka
| Note Taker | Bailey Hayes

* KubeCon recap
    * [Kyle] - need content discovery API more than content API. Very important that we allow different ways of content storing aka content separation
    * A lot of things to navigate in this space... notary, TUF, etc
    * [Radu] - invited Santiago, post-doc in Justin's group but went from NYU to Purdue. Hoping to also work with Marina.
    * [Kyle] - Adjust design to solve for offline keys. Backed by keys that you store offline more securely.
    * [Kyle] - Delegation in the package permission model. Only can delegate power that they have. If we had a simple delegation model, add to operator and package layers.
    * [Radu] - TUF solves key delegation really well.
    * [Kyle] - look at TUF's target delegation
    * [Lann] - Justin Kapos did work on deps and registries. Luke communicating with him for feedback on the intersection of those two ideas.
    * [Lann] - Interest from Docker was interesting (positive). Interested in BCA hosted storage. Or how that works out politically/economically. 
    * [Kyle] - What's in it for them if you're not paying for the content. While we allow other content implementations, they will want to handle the admission of content if they are going to pay for hosting. Why warg needs to be something that can be embedded in existing registries. 
    * [Lann] - Amount of interest in Wasm is increasing the need to be implemented sooner.
    * [Radu] - It's a great problem to have.
* [Kyle] - Participating in OpenSSF. Package integrity SIG.
    * [Lann] - They weren't really working on designs or proposals at the time. Not a lot of traffic. Passed early version of log based design to them.
    * [Bailey] - Another group from Kubecon: The official way to propose to present something to the TAG-Security group is to file a GH issue here: https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/new?assignees=&labels=usecase-presentation%2C+triage-required&template=presentation.md&title=%5BPresentation%5D+Presentation+Title But you can also join the #tag-security channel in the CNCF.io slack (https://slack.cncf.io/) and discuss it with the other members first. Invite from Shlomo Zalman Heigh
* [Peter] - Going to be transitioning to work fulltime on component model
* [Lann] Docker OCI Artifacts
    * Added support for OCI artifacts. Long and winding road.
    * We've covered it in prior conversation in kubecon wrapup.
    * Obvious that some users will want to do this with warg.
    * [Kyle] - Docker asked, why not use image spec? Need to research more.
    * [Radu] - crystalize that we're building a development and deployment registry.
    * [Luke] - Thinking about deployment also as development registry
    * [Radu] - amd/64 image spec how many do this now. Artifact spec gives more flexibility. Reasonable starting point for someone to use for hosting wasm components.
    * [Kyle] - Describing data structures, log-based stuff, but those pieces are more interesting in the development use-case. Do you release your frozen releases as well? Another package type?
    * [Lann] - convention by the registry, e.g. one might require vendoring.
    * [Kyle] - Locked vs semver query in unlocked package. Are the requirements different?
    * [Luke] - Associate a version string is still valuable even in the locked case. Ultimately going to tuple the version with the content hash, etc 
    * [Kyle] - Deploying with the component and likely not bringing the log/metadata with you. This is why component should have that information within the component itself.
    * [Radu] - Earlier conversation had imports and Exports would be part of the registry and the component itself would have that information as well.
    * [Luke] - Nice if single .wasm has all contents without the blockchain-y thing.
    * [Lann] - Meta approach to this thing. How to aggressively punt on these questions.
* [Bailey] - Notes and organization.
    * Bytecode Alliance youtube channel. Section for recorded meetings
    * Big rabbit hole for BCA
